Financing for solar
How does SRS Solar work?
We have partnered with several financing houses and apply to them on
your behalf to ensure you get the best deal on a financing solution for your
solar system.

How long does the finance application take?
The application process typically takes 2-3 weeks to complete.

What could prevent my application from being approved?
Your application may be declined if you do not meet our credit
requirements.

My application was declined, can my partner/spouse apply?
Yes, your partner/spouse can apply separately if they meet the credit
requirements.

I live in an estate, how do I get solar?
You may have to obtain permission from your estate for a solar installation.
We’re happy to help, where possible.

Can I apply if I am a pensioner?
Yes, if you meet our credit requirements this won’t be a problem.


How do I Get My Solar?
You can complete our solar finance form. Or simply contact us
via WhatsApp, call or email and we will assist you.

Who is responsible for the insurance of the solar system?
You as the customer are responsible for insuring your solar system.

Can I cancel my finance agreement before the term is up?
You can cancel at any time; however, T’s &amp; C’s will apply.

Solar Installations


Who will install my solar solution?
We have partnered with a network of certified, professional installers to
handle the installation of your system. All installations receive a Certificate
of Compliance (CoC) upon completion.

What happens during the installation?
The solar panels, inverter and batteries will be mounted. Connections will
be made to the inverter and the electrical grid. The system will then be
tested to ensure it is working correctly.

How long will the installation take?
Installations typically take 1-2 days to complete. But may vary depending
on the size and complexity of the installation.

Would my system be cheaper if I did this myself?
We work closely with product suppliers, installers and finance houses
which allows us to supply solar systems to you at market related prices or
lower. We take the headache out of doing this on your own.

Will my solar system installation be certified?
All our solar installers are accredited and will, within 7 days of your
installation, issue and submit a Certificate of Compliance (CoC) which will
be sent through to you.

What is included in the solar package?
All solutions include hardware, installation and a COC.

What components will my solution typically consist of?
Your solar system will typically consist of solar panels, an inverter,
mounting system, battery and the necessary cabling.

How long will the system last?
Solar panels have a lifetime of up to 25 years. Batteries and inverters have
warranties between 5-10 years depending on the manufacturer. Read
more about how long solar panels last https://srssolar.co.za/2023/04/02/solar-panel-lifespan/

How will solar work for my home?

How many solar panels are required for a 5kW solar
system?
The number of panels required for a 5kW solar system depends on the
wattage of the panels, but typically around 10-15 panels.

How many kW’s (kilowatts) does it take to run a house?
It varies depending on the size of the house and the appliances being
used.

What appliances can a 5kW solar system power?

A 5kW solar system can power several appliances, such as lights, TVs,
refrigerators, and small electronics. For more info refer to our guide on
appliance electricity consumption https://srssolar.co.za/2023/04/03/household-appliances-electricity-consumption/
Can I run my entire house on solar power?
Yes, it’s possible to run your entire house on solar power, but it depends on
your energy consumption and the size of your solar system.
What are the different types of solar panels?
While every solar panel brand and product has unique specifications, we
only use Tier 1 panels from reputable brands. If you would like to learn
more, take a look at our blog about the types of solar panels https://srssolar.co.za/2023/04/04/types-of-solar-panels/

Am I ready for solar?
How do I find out how much I pay for electricity?
Examining your electricity bill is the simplest approach to learn how much
you spend for electricity (and how much electricity you consume each
month). Gathering a year’s worth of electricity bills allows you to establish
an average while accounting for all four seasons of the year, which is the
greatest approach to quickly examine your usage and cost.
How does solar impact my property value?
Installing a solar energy system in your home can have a positive impact
on your property value. Studies have shown that homes with solar systems
sell for more than those without and can increase your home’s value more
than other renovations of the same value.
Who is responsible for the maintenance and monitoring of
the solar system?
You are responsible for the maintenance and monitoring of the solar
system.

I am not sure what to buy, can you assist me?
We would be happy to assist! You can complete our solar finance form. Or
simply contact us via WhatsApp, call or email
https://srssolar.co.za/solar-finance-enquiry/
https://api.whatsapp.com/message/AJBGVD7IE6A5I1?autoload=1&app_absent=0


General Questions

What if I want to Upgrade or Expand my System?
Contact us via WhatsApp, call or email and we will assist you.

What is net metering?
Net metering is a billing system that allows homeowners with solar panels
to get credit for excess energy they generate and send back to the grid. It
helps make solar energy more affordable and accessible. Net metering
policies are currently being rolled out in SA. Please check with your local
power authority for details in your area.

Are solar installations legal?
Yes! Our qualified installers follow strict regulations and will issue a COC
(Certificate of Compliance) for the installation.

Who is Responsible for Setting Up My Solar System?
Our professional installers will handle the installation of your system. All
installations receive a Certificate of Compliance (CoC) upon completion.

SRS Solar KEY DIFFERENTIATORS
End-to-End solution provider for home or business solar – from supply, finance and installation. This
means a hassle-free solution to getting solar.
SRS Solar TARGET CUSTOMER
Minimum household income of R40 000 p/m
Not under debt review
Own the property
Between the ages of 20 – 65

SRS Solar Mission and Vision:
To provide a convenient easy to use solution to clients looking for alternative solar energy solutions.
Connecting end users, looking for solar system solutions for their home or business with product
suppliers, installers and financiers

Why should people consider SRS Solar
Are you tired of loadshedding and the environmental impact of traditional energy sources? SrsSolar
is here to revolutionize your home energy consumption! With our state-of-the-art solar solutions,
you can enjoy clean, renewable energy while saving money and reducing your carbon footprint. Join
the solar revolution and take control of your energy future!
*More about loadshedding than prices

What do SRS SOLAR offer?
SrsSolar offers a comprehensive range of solar solutions designed to meet your unique
requirements. Ranging from small residential, to large commercial solutions, we have the perfect
solar system for you.
• Inverters &amp; Solar Panels: We only supply Tier 1 products from trusted brands
• Energy Storage: Store excess solar energy with our intelligent energy storage solutions. Our
battery systems allow you to save the electricity you generate during the day and use it
during peak hours or at night, ensuring round-the-clock power availability and further
reducing your reliance on the grid.
• Finance: We have partnered with accredited financiers to make the finance process as quick
and easy for our clients as possible
• Installation and COC: We are a one stop solar shop, handling everything from supply to
installation and COC

Why should I rent to buy VS Rent?
•
While both renting and rent-to-buy have their places depending on individual circumstances,
rent-to-buy offers a path towards ownership, financial predictability, and long-term savings. 
•  It&#39;s an investment in your property&#39;s value and your commitment to sustainable energy.
SrsSolar is here to guide you through each step, ensuring that you choose the best financing
option to meet your energy goals. 
•  Renting is at least 2x more expensive than Financing your system on a rent-to-own or
similar model &amp; can be as much as 9x as expensive.

“Can I not get this cheaper if I do this myself?”
• No, we facilitate the supply of products and installation at market related rates. And have
created a package deal to bring down the cost of the equipment and installation.
• We work with the suppliers and installers on an ongoing basis and are able to get discount
on the systems that allow us to supply them to you at the best prices.
• Client would save on labour if they do the install, however they will not get a COC unless
they hire a qualified electrician to sign it off (Costing them money anyway)

Will the installation cause damage to my home?
• The installation of a solar system will add market value to your home as it is seen as a home
improvement.
• We only use qualified and accredited teams to handle all installations
• All work is guaranteed
• You will receive a COC )Certificate of compliance) once the installation is completed



